---
layout: post
title:  "FOSDEM 2019 Software Defined Networking Devroom CFP"
date:   2018-10-15 11:58:44 +0000
categories: FOSDEM
tags: fosdem
---

We are pleased to announce the Call for Participation for the FOSDEM 2019 Software Defined Networking devroom!

**Important dates:**
* Nov 25th 2018:  Submission deadline for talk proposals
* Dec 17th 2018:  Announcement of the final schedule
* Feb  2rd 2019:  Software Defined Networking dev room

We are now inviting proposals for talks about Open Source Software on the topic of Software Defined Networking. This is an exciting and growing field, and FOSDEM gives an opportunity to reach a unique audience of very knowledgeable and highly technical, free and open source software activists.

**Topics:**

This year the DevRoom topics will include the following Software Defined Networking fields.

- Infrastructure: virtual switches & routers, routing daemons, firewall, security, etc. 
- Virtual Network Functions: open source network functions, user-space networking stacks, kernel-space networking innovations.
- Tooling: Networking SDK's, libraries, frameworks, debuggers, counters & statistics, domain specific languages & extensions, etc.
- Validation: Testing tools & frameworks, traffic generators etc 
- Orchestration: NFV management, ML2 plugins, CNI plugins, SDN Controllers, etc.

This year, the DevRoom will focus on low-level networking and high performance packet processing, network automation of containers, virtual machines and private cloud, and the management of networking applications to maintain very high availability and performance independent of whatever the world can throw at their infrastructure (datacenter outages, fires, broken servers, you name it).

**Suggested Projects:**

A representative list of the projects and topics we would like to see on the schedule are:

* Low-level networking and switching: DPDK, IOvisor, eBPF, XDP, Snabb, Open vSwitch, Tungsten Fabric, OpenDataplane …
* Networking Stacks: FD.io, F-Stack, DMM, mTCP,  …
* SDN controllers and overlay networking: OpenStack Neutron, Kubernetes CNI, Canal, OpenDaylight, ONOS, Plumgrid, OVN, OpenContrail, Midonet, …
* Network management; FRRouting, Quagga, BIRD, Netopeer, Go-BGP, …
* NFV management and orchestration: Open-O, ManageIQ, Juju, OpenBaton, Tacker, OSM, Ganglia, NetSNMP, PNDA.io, …
* Supporting tooling: VSPerf, CSIT, TRex, Moongen, Scapy, DPDK Packet Gen …
* NFV related features: Service Function Chaining, fault management, dataplane acceleration, security, …

Talks should be aimed at a technical audience, but should not assume that attendees are already familiar with your project or how it solves a general problem. Talk proposals can be very specific solutions to a problem, or can be higher level project overviews for lesser known projects.

**Proposals:**

Please include the following information when submitting a proposal:

* Your name
* The title of your talk (please be descriptive, as titles will be listed with around 250 from other projects)
* Short abstract of one or two paragraphs
* Short bio (with photo)
* The deadline for submissions is November 25th, 2018. FOSDEM will be held on the weekend of February 2-3, 2019 and the Software Defined Networking DevRoom will take place on Saturday, February 2, 2019. 
* Please use the [FOSDEM Pentabarf website](https://penta.fosdem.org/submission/FOSDEM19) to submit your proposals.(you do not need to create a new Pentabarf account if you already have one from past years).

You can also join the devroom’s mailing list, which is the official communication channel for the DevRoom: network-devroom@lists.fosdem.org [(subscription page)](https://lists.fosdem.org/listinfo/network-devroom)

**Steering Committee:**

* Ray Kinsella
* Thomas Monjalon
* Emma Foley
* Chris Price
* Charles Eckel

